good evening and welcome to spotlight a
weekly series of investigative reports
from around the world I'm Marc hurt
scarred in San Francisco and tonight the
spotlight is on biological weapons in
the CIA
remember the anthrax scare shortly after
the September 11 terrorist attacks
Americans were frightened anew when
packets of anthrax were mailed to a
handful of journalists and members of
Congress 18 months later just where that
anthrax came from remains a mystery but
the most likely source say investigators
is the US government itself the American
military's work in this field began
during World War two in response to Nazi
Germany's pursuit of biological weapons
after the war the US effort expanded to
include experiments with LSD years
before it became part of the 60s
counterculture LSD was being
administered by the CIA not only to
loosen the lips of prisoners under
interrogation but to test the
battlefield reactions of unsuspecting
American soldiers tonight's film tells
the story of a CIA agent who helped run
these covert programs and may have been
murdered because of it in 1953 Frank
Olsen plunged to his death from a 13th
floor hotel window in New York City the
CIA man who was in the room with Olson
said he jumped an autopsy demanded 40
years later by Olsen's son concluded he
was pushed
I'll be back afterwards with an update
for now here is codename artichoke
Frederick Maryland more than 40 years
after his death the body of former CIA
scientist dr. Frank Olson has been
exhumed Olsen's son Erik is convinced
his father was murdered by agents of the
American government because he wanted to
leave the CIA dr. Frank Olson was an
expert for anthrax and other biological
weapons and had top security clearance
forensic pathologists at George
Washington University performed an
autopsy and concluded that Olson
probably was the victim of a violent
crime
I was very strongly identified with him
I loved him and I'm sure that's why you
know in the end I came to gonna take on
this task I'm trying to figure out what
it become of him
it has been eight years since the
exhumation Erik Olson is still searching
for the reasons behind his father's
death in November of 1953 Erik was nine
years old at the time it's a quest he
inherited as the oldest of three
children to solve the mystery of their
father's death my real memories of my
father are not not very you know many or
very clear because the the trauma of his
death really kind of darkened a lot of a
lot of these memories his death was uh
you know so dark and so unmentionable I
mean after he died it was just it was a
subject that one couldn't really go near
Erik Olson has returned to live in the
house his father built for the family in
Frederick in 1950 back then
Olson senior was one of the biochemist
responsible for the biological weapons
center the US Army ran nearby the
anthrax letters that killed five and
caused illness to several others have
haunted Erik ever since could there be a
connection between his father's death
five decades ago and the acts of terror
taking place today feels like every time
the deadly disease that frightened
America after the terrorist attacks on
September 11th seems to have come from
the same US Army Laboratory and
Frederick where Olsen had worked for
Dietrich the biological weapons lab was
founded in 1943 at the time the
Americans feared Hitler might attack the
Allied troops with a virus or bacteria
they quickly produced a gas mask and
anthrax weapons in order to be able to
strike back in kind and chimpanzees
mainly protective masks and clothing
that resists bacteria dr. frank olson an
army captain and one of the first
scientists at fort detrick work together
with norman Cournoyer the two became
good friends
their first sons were born within a few
days of each other in 1944 we worked
about five months in the sinkhole never
saw aerosols to see if we could take in
tests
gas masks and impregnated clothing to
see how good they were then one day he
was transferred to working on hot agents
he said norm about working for me and
the hot stuff that's what we always
referred to it and was anthrax X was
botulism in sofa
Christmas 1947 the war is finally over
Norman and his family celebrate together
with Alice and Frankel's and their
children well we close yes very very
close every day of the week for two and
a half years so you're gonna expect this
to be close among the things his father
left behind Eric Olson found some home
movies and slides at first he didn't pay
that much attention but today he sees
that material from a different point of
view it might it contain any indication
of the secret anthrax research his
father was doing after the war Frank
Olson made a hobby of home movies these
scenes reveal nothing of a secret task
involving deadly weapons they show the
perfect world of a young father captured
with the latest 8 millimeter camera to
hit the market afterwards
Frank Olson turned to photography he
brought home a lot of slides from his
many travels his photographs also
primarily show private moments Frank and
his wife Alice and son Eric in 1945 mr.
and mrs. Olson in 1947 with son Eric and
daughter Lisa Christmas 1949 in a tuxedo
Alice had given birth to their third
child Nils in the meantime the whole
subject of the relationship between a
wife and a husband who's doing you know
top-secret classified work is a the
subject one could discuss at some
lengths because the wife I think
develops you know uncanny kinds of
intuitions about all the things that are
not being said and she knows the limits
of what she can ask and for quite a long
time I think possibly ever since my
father began working at Dietrich
actually that the the whole issue of the
monkeys dying was a very delicate matter
for him and when he would come home from
work for lunch and have a certain kind
of expression she would immediately know
that this meant that that morning all
the monkeys had died which meant that
the experiment had been
success arthur vedic is Frank Olsen's
brother-in-law their families regularly
spend their summer vacation together
Vedic remembers Frank Olson as an
American patriot who was enthusiastic
about working for the Army's biological
weapons program he was a person who
believed in what he was doing who felt
that the work that he was doing at the
center and Frederick was important for
the United States he considered himself
there be loyal and patriotic person that
kind of an attitude of loyalty was one
way of expressing your Americanism dr.
Frank Olson had worked for the US Army's
biological weapons laboratory for
exactly ten years when he died in New
York in the wee hours of November 28th
1953 he spent the night at the hotel
Pennsylvania along with a CIA agent who
was there to guard him that night
Frank Olsen plunged to his death from
his room on the hotel's 13th floor it
was said through a closed window
Neels the youngest of Olsen's three
children scribbled on the clipping with
a crayon
I was simply told that you know your
father has had an accident and he's died
and the only detail I was then given was
that he he had fallen or jumped out of a
window and I I remember quite clearly
just being totally stupefied by this
because I was a nine year old I was I
was old enough to have some idea of
cause and effect and I had no idea what
does it mean to fall out of a window I
mean how do you fall out of a window in
the middle of the night what is that
Eric didn't understand and for his
mother the subject of his father's death
became a taboo
the search for the circumstances
surrounding the mysterious death of dr.
Frank Olsen begins in 1945 with the
liberation of the concentration camp at
Dachau Germany American troops
discovered the corpses of hundreds of
prisoners who had been murdered or
starved to death many of the survivors
told US doctors about cruel experiments
the camp's doctors carried out using
disease germs and various drugs a few
weeks later
Atkins begged castle north of Frankfurt
the scientific elite of Nazi Germany is
arrested and questioned by American
officers the name of the project is
Operation dustbin the American military
hopes to evaluate and exploit the
findings German researchers made during
the war among the prisoners Atkins
begged castle is rocket scientist
professor Hammond obut who collects
autographs from his colleagues
some of the leading scientific experts
in Nazi Germany had been involved in
biological warfare testing the effects
of deadly germs on human beings in
Dachau and other concentration camps one
of them was Professor Kurt Bruma Bluma
was the third Vikes deputy Surgeon
General and the man behind German
research into biological weapons Luoma
will be among those charged in the case
against concentration camp doctors
brought before the military tribunal in
Nuremberg he will face the death penalty
in spite of the fact that there is
enough evidence against him could rumor
will be acquitted in Nuremberg the
Americans have other plans for him
HIV in Allah often had become that's it
and he betrayed God National Socialists
on and hang up Adolf Hitler isn't
anything we were interested in and
anyone who did work in biological
warfare
how did they want to use that the Nazis
yes absolutely they want to use anything
that would kill people anything
the Americans saved Craig Wilma seen
here on the left from death by hanging
in turn he provides them with
information about the Nazi biological
weapons program one of the specialists
interrogating Roma is Donald Falconer a
friend and colleague of Frank Olson
Falconer is responsible for developing
anthrax bombs today more than 50 years
later Donald Falconer lives in a
convalescent home not far from Friedrich
Eric Olson had visited Falconer several
times
hoping his father's old friend might one
day confide a crucial secret in him but
Falconer refuses to say anything
feeling bound by his military oath and
he doesn't want to be interviewed
and one of his father's films
immediately following images of his
grandfather Erick discovers a sequence
that seems to show secret crop dusting
flights that took place in 1947 using
the findings of Bluma and other Nazi
scientists the Americans experimented
with artificial diseases capable of
destroying crops after the short clip
more family pictures of the children
meanwhile in Fort Detrick a massive arms
program is taking place with
bacteriological weapons primarily
anthrax spores which have proven to be
highly resistant and therefore suitable
for biological warfare anthrax is
cultivated in this building then placed
in bombs the Americans are concerned
about the Soviets biological arsenal if
the Cold War should ever turn hot deadly
bacteria might be used as weapons the
army demands ample weapons at the ready
Frank Olson often accompanies the Air
Force to test germ warfare in the field
for example on the Caribbean island of
Antigua these tests are carried out to
monitor the spread of diseases under
realistic conditions most of the tests
Olson's team carries out in the
Caribbean and on the Alaskan tundra deal
with a relatively harmless bacteria but
some tests are conducted using actual
pathogens called odd stuff we didn't use
enter actually use
bacillus kabhi GI which is very similar
and sport has an Traxxas so to that
extent we did do something that was not
kosher cuz we picked it up all over I
mean it was picked up months afterwards
it's an easygoing life they led but they
have a secret mission in California
Olson and his team drive up the Pacific
coast and a yellow convertible to
prepare an experiment to take place over
San Francisco Bay spores will be
released in order to test the city's
vulnerability to an act of Russian
sabotage Frank Olson loves life and has
little interest in following rules his
unconventional manner seems inconsistent
with his job working for the army in
October of 1949 Olson is suspected of
disclosing government secrets he is
interrogated by military intelligence
Olson was mildly impatient with the
questioning conducted during the course
of this interview this attitude is
regarded as typical by persons at
Detrick who were acquainted with him
Olson is violently opposed to control of
scientific research either military or
otherwise and opposes supervision of his
work he does not follow orders and has
had numerous altercations with MPs it
was very very open and not scared to say
what he thought that mattered to the
contrary he didn't give a damn Frank
Wilson pulls no punches at any time and
I don't know why I think that that's
what they were scared of I'm sure he did
speak out anything he wanted to and so
was he going to be caught on this could
be could be
as the scientists responsible for
biological warfare experiments Frank
Olson was among the most important
holders of confidential information
during the Cold War November 1953 four
years after he was suspected of
disclosing secrets an accusation that
was never proved during a trip to New
York Olson is accompanied by a CIA agent
who watches him constantly never leaving
his side Olson and the CIA agent take a
room in the famous hotel Pennsylvania so
what are they doing in New York I'm and
pastori
is the manager of the hotel he is on
duty that night
when Frank Olson falls from the 13th
floor landing on the sidewalk in front
of the hotel trying to speak to me very
earnest look in his eyes you know wide
open then but there was blood everywhere
it was blood from his nose blood from
his eyes blood from his ears there was a
bone protruding from the left arm
sticking straight out and then we kept
trying to speak to him but we were not
really communicating but I couldn't
understand anything you were saying and
then finally he died a story notifies
the police and accompanies them to the
13th floor in the meantime he has
determined that Olson must have fallen
to his death from 1018 a and that there
was probably another person in the room
at the time wait a minute is it possible
somebody's in there and then they became
alert and they pulled their guns out
have you opened the door we'll go in so
I hope I opened the door with my key and
they rushed in and here this guy was
sitting on the in the commode with his
hands on his knees his head up hands up
to his head
and they said what happened cop said
what happened I don't know I just heard
a crash of glass and then I see Frank
Olson is out of this tree I looked out
the window and he's down in the street
the cia's shadow testifies that he was
fast asleep and didn't hear Olson get
out of bed he can offer no explanation
for the suicide he has nothing else to
say he makes no statement regarding the
reason the two were visiting New York
the case is closed quickly no one is
interested in the telephone call that
someone made from Olsen's room
immediately following his death so the
operators yeah there was one call out of
that room I said yeah I said what what
was the conversation I said well the man
in the room called this number out in
Long Island and he said well he's gone
and the man on the other end said well
that's too bad and they both hung up
was that the CIA agent reporting that he
had solved the Frank Olsen problem in
the hotel Pennsylvania Eric Olsen in New
York for years now he's been searching
for witnesses who might know something
about his father's death which he
considers to be a murder perpetrated by
the CIA he wants to know the motive was
the government afraid Frank Olsen might
reveal state secrets the recent terror
attacks involving anthrax were a shock
to Erick feels like every time
Eric finds himself wondering about a lot
of things was the anthrax terrorist one
of our own is that the reason he hasn't
been caught because he knows something
no one else should find out about a
secret his father knew - in a suburb of
New York Eric Olsen meets longtime CIA
veteran Ike Feldman in the 50s
he worked in Drug Enforcement at least
that was the official version although
Feldman never met Eric's father
personally he discovered some
information about the circumstances of
his death City Police Department it was
a bureau narcotic agents and it was a
CIA agent agents themselves they all
seem the same that's he was pushed out
the window that he didn't jump people
who wanted him out of the way said that
he talked too much and he was telling
people about the things that he'd done
which is American secret if you work on
a top government secret city secret
state secret and it spills out the
people that you should know there's only
one way to do it kill him
in April of 1950 dr. Frank Olson
received a diplomatic passport unusual
for an army scientist did he have a new
job in the following years he traveled
off into Europe including making several
trips to Germany he was a member of the
CIA
how many Tong this out after he told me
about it cuz I didn't know it because to
me he was a captain and that's all I
knew about it at first but turns out
that he was a CIA agent and he stayed on
and heard on rule 1953 pictures taken in
Frankfurt and Heidelberg will later turn
up among Olson slides these cities were
home to the US Army's most important
facilities in Germany there is also a
picture of the top secret CIA
headquarters in Germany located in the
building of IG Farben in the heart of
Frankfurt
what is Olsen's new assignment he is now
working in an area that has nothing to
do with biological weapons here and the
German Offices of the CIA the biochemist
is conducting important conversations
with US intelligence officers
increasingly he can be found in the
company of other CIA agents including a
certain John McNulty it has to do with a
top-secret project to use chemicals
drugs and torture on human beings in
order to break their will and make them
submissive brainwashing the codename for
this operation artichoke the team would
enjoy the opportunity of applying
artichoke techniques to individuals of
dubious loyalty suspected agents or
plants and subjects having known reasons
for deception
an uber Ursuline the town whose hills
north of Frankfort hidden an old
half-timbered houses the US Army led a
quiet little interrogation Center Camp
King it was primarily Soviet agents and
defectors from East Germany who were
kept here people the CIA considered to
be communist spies special teams the so
called rough boys interrogated the
prisoners former SS member funds guy
Josh was hired just after the war by the
Americans to tend the bar on the
officers mess at Camp King sometime in
the year of 1952 in the top secret
interrogation Center guy dosh runs
across another German professor Kurt
boomer bloomer and it's at arts for a
long time bloomer was a doctor at Camp
Kings he also ran the clinic he was a
protege of the Americans and had been a
concentration camp doctor he conducted
experiments
experimenting Emma
the American officers who live the good
life at Camp King aren't disturbed about
bollns past was the former
concentration camp doctor expected to
lend his experience for their own
planned experiments on human beings
a CIA consultant began planning the
artichoke experiments as early as
September of 1951 the conversations that
uber also pointed up signs and symptoms
of drugs that might be used we should
look into the use of amnesia producing
drugs of course their methods were not
humane they exerted a lot of pressure
there are ways of breaking people at
Camp King they were notorious the rough
boys anything somebody didn't want to
reveal they would try to get it out of
them
there are many indications that the cool
experiments involving human beings
operation artichoke took place in this
isolated CIA safe house near Camp King
at the edge of a town called cone back
the former Shuster Villa now called
house vault wolf was built shortly after
the turn of the century as the summer
residence of a Jewish banking family
from Frankfurt
the Nazis confiscated it in 1934 and the
Americans took it over after the war the
neighbors the community didn't know who
it was what this place was because the
military personnel going in and out of
the house weren't in uniform they wore
civilian clothing the vehicles had no
license tags so the community wasn't
even aware it was an American facility
amerikanische he told me that house
falls off in June 1950 to the CIA begins
conducting brainwashing experiments
using various drugs hypnosis and
probably torture one of the top secret
protocols documents a Russian agent
being pumped full of medication
the goal of the experiments is to
manipulate the human mind in order to
extract secrets from its subjects
and then to erase their memory so they
can't remember what happened to them
dr. Frank Olsen arrived in Frankfort on
June 12 1952 from Hendon military
airport near London
he left the Ryan mind reached in three
days later on June 15th
On June 13th experiments are conducted
with patient number two a suspected
Soviet double agent
are you as trouble after he came back
from Germany one time he came back and
he told me he said norm I'll tell you
right now you not never talked about
this but hey you know we're we're both
grownups and this was rough
he said norm you would be stunned by a
techniques that they used they made
people talk they brainwash people they
used all kinds of drugs they all kinds
of torture
the CIA's unscrupulous experiments and
human beings continued the Nazi drug
experiments they learned of during the
liberation of the Dachau concentration
camp they were using Nazis they were
using prisoners they were using Russians
and they didn't care whether or not that
came out of it or not
one of the things we had to do was to
assemble it meanwhile the US Army was
conducting extensive experiments with a
new miracle drug LSD here for example a
soldier was expected to assemble a rifle
while under the influence of the
hallucinogen the Army's LSD experiments
took place on the campus of the chemical
Corps in Edgewood Arsenal the scientists
who worked in these laboratories in the
early 50s and who collaborated closely
with Frank Olsen we're looking for new
hallucinogenic substances they hope to
find a way to use the drugs on the
battleground
a chemist from former Nazi Germany dr.
Fritz Hofmann had been hired a few years
earlier to spur the search for new
behavior modifying substances
immediately after the war he courted the
Americans seeking to ensure a job in the
United States there was an interest in
in the US during that time and looking
at mood altering drugs from LSD to canoe
Clio method amends late and other
possible mood altering drugs which
wasn't was interested in that area as
well after its experiments on soldiers
the army saw potential on using LSD and
other drugs to sedate and dope enemy
troops in short order it would be
possible to conquer territory without a
fight
a short time later the CIA begins
conducting its own LSD experiments in
the Bohemian New York neighborhood of
Greenwich Village on Bedford Street but
unlike the army experiments the subjects
of these tests which took place in an
apartment disguised as a brothel would
not be informed the CIA hired
prostitutes to pour LSD into their
customers drinks and then wore them and
too revealing secrets my purpose was to
see that we got guys up there who we
wanted to talk and through other people
we got prostitutes to come in and speak
to these guys and these prostitutes
would put something which I found out
later on was LSD instead of drink and
make him talk either they wanted to talk
about narcotics security or crime this
was all part of the CIA experiment they
called it dirty tricks LSD it was soon
learned was a much more effective way to
loosen the tongue than alcohol was
Deep Creek Lake in Western Maryland a
three-hour drive from Washington in an
isolated vacation house at the edge of
the lake
the CIA's dirty tricks department
converged here for a meeting with ten of
its scientists in November 1953 the
meeting is about artichoke according to
the invitation it was a conference for
sports journalists but in reality the
participants one of them Frankel's were
to be placed under the influence of LSD
one of the drinks has been spiked later
it will be said the CIA was conducting a
kind of self-test but without the
knowledge of the participants I don't
think again from what I heard that he
was drugged because he was a security
agent he was drugged because he talked
too much when Frank Olson was later
briefed about the LSD experiment he knew
immediately what it meant they had
interrogated him with artichoke
techniques Friday evening he came home
and spent the weekend you know in this
house with with my mother and brother
and sister and me and during much of
that weekend they sat on a sofa which
was just over here and it was a it was a
foggy November a weekend if she
described it an ace or sat there holding
hands and kind of staring out these big
windows into the fog and he described
having made something he referred to as
a terrible mistake
the CIA brings Olson accompanied by an
agent to New York in the hotel they are
joined by a doctor working for the
Secret Service who administers
medication Frank Olson has become a
security risk but it seems the CIA has
already found a solution
they're 40 years leader at the Institute
for her NZT medicine at George
Washington University the body of dr.
Frankel's has been exhumed and is
undergoing an autopsy Eric wants clarity
once and for all and as it turns out the
results of the first autopsy in 1953 in
New York related report from New York
City and the medical examiner's office
which I had before me was totally
inaccurate in some very important
respects talked about lacerations cuts
of the flesh that in all probability
might have been caused by by glass and
in the course of his fall there were no
lacerations they were not they're
totally non-existent we also noticed
immediately that he had a hemorrhage
which we call a hematoma it's what we
call a sub Galil hematoma which is under
the under the skull by the frontal bone
that is only reasonable reasonably
explainable as having occurred by reason
of his being shall we say silenced being
rendered unable to defend himself so
that he could be tossed out the window
Stars arranges to visit the Pennsylvania
hotel with Armin pastori the hotel
manager who found Frankel's in that
night afterwards he makes his judgment
it is my view and that of a number of my
team members not all of them but a
number of my team members that it was
homicide
that would mean Frank Olson was first
knocked out by a targeted blow and then
thrown out of the open hotel window just
a few months before the murder took
place the CIA had this study of
assassination prepared how to book for
agents on how to kill people without
leaving any clues in this report it says
the most efficient accident in simple
assassination is a fall of 75 feet or
more onto a hard surface in some cases
and will be necessary to stun or drugged
the subject before dropping him what we
spelled out in that assassination manual
was almost leather 4-letter what
happened to dr. Olson and and it was a
protocol as we call it for an
assassination which fit like the fingers
in a glove so was it in fact murder but
for what reason why did Olson speak of a
terrible mistake he had made
there's a piece missing I'm not sure
that I'm the one that give it to you
well what happened was that he he just
got involved in it in a way that he was
not happy about it
but there's nothing he could do about it
he was CIA and they a tribute to the end
summer 1953 Frank Olson and his
father-in-law cut down a tree then the
family goes to Tupper Lake on vacation
just like every year with Arthur Vedic
his wife and their children everything
seems the same as always
but that appearance is deceiving Frank
is troubled by something and he makes an
attempt to confide in his brother-in-law
art
I've never had a conversation with him
about anything that might have involved
moral values what saddled me about it
was that he had mentioned the Bible and
that he was struggling with something
you knew that there was a problem that
he was attempting to confront but what
that problem was I didn't know I can
visualize his face actually it was drawn
in a way I'd never seen him before
while the family enjoys summer time at
the lake frank retreats into his own
world my mother also recalled that my my
father was short-tempered during that
last last summer and that she knew that
he had been going through some kind of
crisis I mean she knew he hadn't been
sleeping well and she knew he wasn't
really at peace he had been agitated and
and you know worried about something I
had you know from time to time discussed
leaving Dietrich leaving his job and
retraining himself as a dentist and she
had encouraged him to do this if that's
what he wanted to do in Asia at the time
a bitter war was going on between Allied
US troops against the North Koreans and
Chinese it had already been going on for
three years it was the first long
awaited and long feared battle between
the west and communism could the Korean
War have anything to do with Frank's
personal problems
he still has an office here in Fort
Detrick and the US army sent it for
biological weapons at the same time he
is working for the CIA among the tasks
of the dirty tricks department in
building 1412 are brainwashing drugs and
torture as well as murder by means of
poisons and bacteria on July 17 1953
Olson celebrates his 43rd birthday with
friends a few days later he leaves for
the last trip he will ever take
he took his movie camera first stop
London first objects filmed Big Ben and
a parade on the mall then on to Paris
near the Eiffel Tower is two CIA
colleagues sit in a sidewalk cafe and
watch pretty French girls go by on the
left is John McNulty Paris London
Stockholm Frank will leader right on the
packaging his son Eric is seeing his
father's last film for the first time in
his memory then suddenly a picture of
the ruins of the Reichstag and
brandenburg gate the soviet memorial for
the victims of the second world war so
frank olson was also in berlin early in
august 1953 in Sealand Dorf he
photographs the headquarters of the
American army is Frank Olson on a secret
artichoke mission several top-level
communist agents were being interrogated
in Berlin at the time it was a time of
intense political and military tension
in the divided city just weeks after the
civilian uprising in the Soviet sector
at the army headquarters in Berlin Olson
apparently witnessed brutal
interrogation methods
when he came back from Germany the last
time he sounded different when he talked
to me he said I could probably tell you
things that I can't tell other people
put your children and top secret
material but the people that he saw in
Germany went to the extreme and he said
norm did you ever see a man die and I
said no he said well I did they did die
some of the people that were
interrogated died so you can imagine the
amount of work that they were doing on
these people
he said that he was going to leave he
told me that he said I'm getting out of
that CIA period in Korea it's just a
matter of days before the first American
prisoners of war will be released some
of them will face charges of high
treason because they accused their own
country of conducting biological warfare
are their accusations accurate or are
they themselves the victims of communist
brainwashing one thing is for certain
back home and freedom the soldiers
making these confessions will be
interrogated again using drugs and
torture by their own people
all hands agreed that among the
returning POWs from Korea the hardcore
group and those who had been
successfully indoctrinated were
excellent subjects for artichoke work
the American soldiers who claim to have
committed biological warfare were
apparently manipulated using artichoke
techniques this is documented in CIA
papers and indeed all discredited their
confessions
I did sign a confession relating to germ
warfare but the statements contained in
this confession were false they were
obtained under duress from the Chinese
Communists and by making these
statements I deliberately attempted to
put in as much as was false and
ridiculous as I could possibly get away
with I took on all this plan left here I
mean I wouldn't talk about that I'm
sorry
the Korean War Memorial in Washington
honors the Americans who died in that
fight of those who returned some were
interrogated by the CIA using cruel
methods and forced to rescind their
confessions but were the confessions the
truth did the Americans in fact use
biological weapons in the Korean War as
a test and was this the secret Frank
Olson knew and might disclose this fits
with what my mother had always said
Korea really bothered your father
finally when one of my father's
colleagues you know within the past year
only told me that you know my father had
come to understand the Korea was that
was the key thing and that and that that
they were using biological warfare
methods in Korea so and then I proceeded
to ask him well what about the germ
warfare confessions that this was you
know this was alleged to be by the
American government these confessions
made by the American servicemen were
were immediately discredited with under
the idea that these were manipulated and
produced only by the effect of
brainwashing and at that point my
father's colleague looked at me and he
said as if to say read my lips he said
it wasn't all brainwashing would this
colleague Norman Kuhn or repeat this
statement in front of the camera he has
never made a public statement neither
about Frank Olson nor about biological
warfare in the Korean War
will he now in his eighties pay last
respects to his old friend Frank Olson
and the Frank's son Eric who takes part
in this conversation I took an oath when
I left the United States are harming
that I would never divulge that type of
stuff you can't pull the Kenya
here say so you don't say I don't want
to say it but there were people who had
biological weapons and they use him I
won't say any more than that they used
him was there a reason for your dad
being killed by the CIA how so
around Frederick Maryland where Frank
Olsen lived while working for both the
US Army secret biological warfare
program and the CIA the FBI is still
looking for the anthrax terrorist for
months the largest investigation in the
history of American criminal justice has
been under way should the perpetrator be
accused in the case come to court the
government in Washington might be forced
to reveal what Erik Olson believes is
top-secret information about illegal
research on biological weapons about the
use of anthrax in the Korean War and
about his father's murder
Eric wants to tell his friend Bruce
about the latest evidence Bruce has been
at his side throughout his years of
research once in the summer of 1975 the
American government didn't hesitate to
see to it that the truth was not made
known the conspiracy originated at the
top in the White House initiated by
Donald Rumsfeld and Richard Cheney it
had just been learned that the CIA had
allegedly drugged its employee frank
olson with LSD before his supposed
suicide rumsfeld and cheney
heads of the white house chiefs of staff
at the time recommended to President
Gerald Ford that he apologized to the
family in the name of the government and
to support retribution in order to
prevent worse things from happening
that's the content of this White House
memo
there is the possibility that it might
be necessary to disclose highly
classified national security information
in connection with any court suit or
legislative hearings 10 days leader Ford
hosted the Olsen family and apologized
this allowed him to remain silent
about state secrets and the true reasons
for Frank Olsen's death what this means
for me is that you know national
security homicide is not only a
possibility but really it's a necessity
when you have certain number of
ingredients together if you're doing
top-secret work that is immoral arguably
immoral especially in a post Nuremberg
period and arguably illegal and at odds
with the kind of high moral position
that you're trying to maintain in the
world you have to have a mechanism of
security which is going to include
murder
the to politicians who collaborated in
the conspiracy in 1975 rumsfeld and
cheney are back in power as vice
president and secretary of defense of
the government of the united states the
frank olson case it seems is far from
closed even fifty years later that at
least is one thing of which olson son is
now certain
you